docs: add documentation of NgZone with zone.js (#34295)
angular/angular: aio/content/guide/zone.md

# How to Detect Changes Automatically with NgZone

This topic describes how to use NgZone to automatically detect changes and update the HTML.

> In Angular, you can [display data](guide/displaying-data) by binding controls in HTML template to the properties of an Angular Component.

Reviewer: ...by binding controls in **an** HTML template

Author: Got it, thanks!

<code-example path="displaying-data/src/app/app.component.1.ts" header="src/app/app.component.ts"></code-example>

> We can bind DOM events to the method of an Angular component. In the method, we can also update the property of the Angular component, which updates the data displayed in the template.

Reviewer: A transition makes this a little easier to read:

"**In addition,** we can bind DOM events..."

Author: Got it, thanks!

      // we need to call detectChange manually.
      detectChange();
    });

    // example2: Http Request
    const xhr = new XMLHttpRequest();
    xhr.addEventListener('load', function() {
      // get response from server
      value = this.responseText;
      // we need to call detectChange manually
      detectChange();
    });
    xhr.open('GET', serverUrl);
    xhr.send();

    // example3: setTimeout
    setTimeout(() => {
      // update value inside setTimeout callback
      value = 'timeout update value';
      // we need to call detectChange manually.
      detectChange();
    }, 100);

    // example4: Promise.then
    Promise.resolve('promise resolved a value').then((v) => {
      // update value inside Promise thenCallback
      value = v;
      // we need to call detectChange manually.
      detectChange();
    }, 100);

    // example5: some other asynchronous APIs
    document.getElementById('canvas').toBlob(blob => {
      // update value when blob data is created from the canvas
      value = `value updated by canvas, size is ${blog.size}`;
      // we need to call detectChange manually.
      detectChange();
    });
  </script>
</html>
```

> In this code, after we update the data, we need to call detectChanges manually to check whether the data changed. If the data changed, we render the HTML to reflect the updated data.

Reviewer: I recommend backticks for specific method/property/class names. So:

...we need to call `detectChanges` manually...

> In Angular, you don't need to make such kind of call. Whenever you update the data, your HTML is updated automtatically.

Reviewer: Change "...you don't need to make such kind of a call" to "...this step is unnecessary."

Author: Got it, thanks!

To understand how this works, first review when the application needs to update the HTML. Typically, updates occur for one of the following reasons:

> 1. Component initialization. For example, when we bootstrap an Angular application, Angular loads bootstrap component and triggers the [ApplicationRef.tick](api/core/ApplicationRef#tick) to call Change Detection and View Rendering. Just like in the [displaying data](guide/displaying-data) sample, the AppComponent, is the bootstrap component. This component has the properties title and myHero, which the application renders in the HTML.

Reviewer: Change "Angular loads bootstrap..." to "Angular loads **the** bootstrap..."

Author: Got it, thanks

> 1. Component initialization. For example, when we bootstrap an Angular application, Angular loads bootstrap component and triggers the [ApplicationRef.tick](api/core/ApplicationRef#tick) to call Change Detection and View Rendering. Just like in the [displaying data](guide/displaying-data) sample, the AppComponent, is the bootstrap component. This component has the properties title and myHero, which the application renders in the HTML.

Reviewer: Also, delete comma after "AppComponent".

Author: Got it, thanks!

2. Event Listener. The DOM event listener can update the data in an Angular Component and also trigger Change Detection.

<code-example path="user-input/src/app/click-me.component.ts" region="click-me-component" header="src/app/click-me.component.ts"></code-example>

3. Http Data Request. We can also get data from a server through an Http request. For example:

```typescript
@Component({
  selector: 'app-root',
  template: '<div>{{data}}</div>';
})
export class AppComponent implements OnInit {
  data = 'initial value';
  constructor(private httpClient: HttpClient) {}

  ngOnInit() {
    this.httpClient.get(serverUrl).subscribe(response => {

>       // user don't need to care about change detection here

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      // user does not need to worry about triggering  change detection manually
```

Author: Got it, thanks!

      data = response.data;
    });
  }
}
```

> 4. MacroTask: such as setTimeout/setInterval, We can also update the data in the callback function of macroTask such as setTimeout. For example:

Reviewer: Change "MacroTask: such as setTimeout/setInterval., We" to "MacroTask, such as setTimeout/setInterval. We"

(Change the colon to a comma, and the comma to a period.)

Author: Got it, thanks!

```typescript
@Component({
  selector: 'app-root',
  template: '<div>{{data}}</div>';
})
export class AppComponent implements OnInit {
  data = 'initial value';

>   constructor(private httpClient: HttpClient) {}

Reviewer 2: This  constructor in unnecessary?
```suggestion
```

Author: yes, thanks, I removed it.

  ngOnInit() {
    setTimeout(() => {

>       // user don't need to care about change detection here

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      // user does not need to worry about triggering  change detection manually
```

Author: Got it, thanks.

      data = 'value updated';
    });
  }
}
```

> 5. MicroTask: such as Promise.then, Other asynchronous APIs return a Promise object (such as fetch), so the then callback function can also update the data. For example:

Reviewer: Same as previous comment. (Change colon to comma, and the comma after Promise.then to a period.

Author: Got it, thanks!

```typescript
@Component({
  selector: 'app-root',
  template: '<div>{{data}}</div>';
})
export class AppComponent implements OnInit {
  data = 'initial value';

>   constructor(private httpClient: HttpClient) {}

Reviewer 2: This constructor in unnecessary?
```suggestion
```

Author: yes, thanks, I removed it.

  ngOnInit() {
    Promise.resolve(1).then(v => {

>       // user don't need to care about change detection here

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      // user does not need to worry about triggering  change detection manually
```

Author: Got it, thanks.

      data = v;
    });
  }
}
```

6. Other async operations. In addition to addEventListener/setTimeout/Promise.then, there are other operations that can update the data asynchronously. Some examples include WebSocket.onmessage, Canvas.toBlob, and so on.

> The preceding list contains all possible scenarios in which the application might change the data. Angular needs to detect changes and render the HTML only when the data actually changes. Angular tracks these changes in different ways. For component initialization, Angular calls Change Detection explicitly. However, notice that all of the other scenarios are [asynchronous operations](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Asynchronous). For these scenarios, Angular uses a Zone to detect changes automatically.

Reviewer 2: I would not make statements such as `all possible scenarios` Seems to strong, maybe say most common scenarios?

Reviewer 2: This paragraph uses akward wording. Could we rewrite to something like this:
```suggestion
The preceding list contains most common scenarios in which the application might change the data. Angular runs change detection whenever it detects that data could have changed. The result of change detection is that DOM is updated with new data. Angular detects the changes in different ways. For component initialization, Angular calls Change Detection explicitly. For [asynchronous operations](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Asynchronous), Angular uses a Zone to detect changes possible places where the data could have mutated and it kicks of change detection automatically.
```

Why is `Change Detection` capitalized?

Author: Sure, this is better, and I will update the `Change Detection` to `change detection`.

### Zone provides an Execution Context
A Zone provides an Execution Context that persists across async tasks. [Execution Context](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/this) is an abstract concept that holds information about the environment within the current code being executed.

```javascript
const callback = function() {
  console.log('setTimeout callback context is', this);
}

const ctx1 = {
  name: 'ctx1'
};
const ctx2 = {
  name: 'ctx2'
};

const func = function() {
  console.log('caller context is', this);
  setTimeout(callback);
}

func.apply(ctx1);
func.apply(ctx2);
```

The value of `this` in the callback of setTimeout might differ from when setTimeout is called. So we lost the context in asynchronous operations.

A Zone provides a new zone context other than `this`, the zone context will be persisted across asynchronous operations. Let's call the new zone context `zoneThis`.

```javascript
zone.run(() => {
  // now we are in a zone
  expect(zoneThis).toBe(zone);
  setTimeout(function() {
    // the zoneThis context will be the same zone
    // when the setTimeout is scheduled
    expect(zoneThis).toBe(zone);
  });
});
```

> This new context, zoneThis, can be retrieved from the setTimeout callback function, and this context is the same when the setTimeout is scheduled. To get the context, you can call [Zone.current](https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/master/packages/zone.js/lib/zone.ts).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This new context, `zoneThis`, can be retrieved from the `setTimeout` callback function, and this context is the same when the `setTimeout` is scheduled. To get the context, you can call [`Zone.current`](https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/master/packages/zone.js/lib/zone.ts).
```

Author: Got it, thanks

With Zone, we can create contexts that persist across asynchronous operations. Zone also provides life cycle hooks of asynchronous operations.

```javascript
const zone = Zone.current.fork({
  name: 'zone',
  onScheduleTask: function(delegate, curr, target, task) {
    console.log('new task is scheduled: ', task.type, task.source);
    return delegate.scheduleTask(target, task);
  },
  onInvokeTask: function(delegate, curr, target, task, applyThis, applyArgs) {
    console.log('task will be invoked', task.type, task.source);
    return delegate.invokeTask(target, task, applyThis, applyArgs);
  },
  onHasTask: function(delegate, curr, target, hasTaskState) {
    console.log('task state changed in the zone', hasTaskState);
    return delegate.hasTask(target, hasTaskState);
  },
  onInvoke: function(delegate, curr, target, callback, applyThis, applyArgs) {
    console.log('the callback will be invoked', callback);
    return delegate.invoke(target, callback, applyThis, applyArgs);
  }
});
zone.run(() => {
  setTimeout(() => {
    console.log('timeout callback is invoked.');
  });
});
```

Here we create a zone with several hooks.

> `onXXXTask` hooks trigger when the status of Task changes, the Task is the same concept with the Javascript VM.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`onXXXTask` hooks trigger when the status of Task changes. The Zone Task concept is very similar to the Javascript VM Task concept.
```

Author: Got it, thanks

> - macroTask: such as setTimeout.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `macroTask`: such as `setTimeout`.
```

Author: Got it, thanks

> - microTask: such as Promise.then.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `microTask`: such as `Promise.then`.
```

Author: Got it, thanks

> - eventTask: such as element.addEventListener.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `eventTask`: such as `element.addEventListener`.
```

Author: Got it, thanks

And onInvoke hook triggers when a synchronize function is executed in a Zone.

Here is a bit more information about when those hooks trigger.

> - onScheduleTask: This hook tiggers when a new asynchronous task is scheduled, such as when we call setTimeout.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `onScheduleTask`: This hook tiggers when a new asynchronous task is scheduled, such as when we call `setTimeout`.
```

Author: Got it, thanks

> - onInvokeTask: This hook triggers when an asynchronous task is about to execute, such as when the callback of setTimeout is about to execute.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `onInvokeTask`: This hook triggers when an asynchronous task is about to execute, such as when the callback of `setTimeout` is about to execute.
```

Author: Got it, thanks.

> -onHasTask: This hook triggers when the status of one kind of task inside a zone changes from stable to unstable or from unstable to stable. The status, stable, means there are no tasks inside the Zone, while unstable means a new task is scheduled in the zone.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `onHasTask`: This hook triggers when the status of one kind of task inside a zone changes from stable to unstable or from unstable to stable. The status, stable, means there are no tasks inside the Zone, while unstable means a new task is scheduled in the zone.
```

Author: Got it, thanks.

> -onInvoke: This hook triggers when a synchronize function is going to execute in the zone.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `onInvoke`: This hook triggers when a synchronize function is going to execute in the zone.
```

Author: Got it, thanks.

With all those hooks, `Zone` can monitor the status of all synchronize and asynchronous operations inside a zone.

When we run the above sample, we see the following output.

```
the callback will be invoked () => {
  setTimeout(() => {
    console.log('timeout callback is invoked.');
  });
}
new task is scheduled:  macroTask setTimeout
task state changed in the zone { microTask: false,
  macroTask: true,
  eventTask: false,
  change: 'macroTask' }
task will be invoked macroTask setTimeout
timeout callback is invoked.
task state changed in the zone { microTask: false,
  macroTask: false,
  eventTask: false,
  change: 'macroTask' }
```

> All of the functions of Zone are provided by a library called [zone.js](https://github.com/angular/angular/tree/master/packages/zone.js/README.md). This library implements those features by monkey patching asynchronous APIs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All of the functions of Zone are provided by a library called [zone.js](https://github.com/angular/angular/tree/master/packages/zone.js/README.md). This library implements those features by intercepting (through monkey patching) asynchronous APIs.
```

Author: Got it, thanks

Monkey patching is a technique to add, modify the default behavior of a function at runtime without changing the source code.

## NgZone

We know Zone can monitor all the states of synchronous and asynchronous operations. In addition, Angular provides a service called NgZone. This service creates a Zone named `angular` to automatically trigger change detction when the following conditions are satisfied:

1: When sync or async function is executed.

> 2: When there is no microTask scheduled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2: When there is no `microTask` scheduled.
```

Author: Got it, thanks.

### NgZone run/runOutsideOfAngular

> `Zone` handles the most of asynchronous APIs such as `setTimeout/Promise.then/addEventListener`, for the full list, please check the [Zone Module document](https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/master/packages/zone.js/MODULE.md). So in those asynchronous APIs, we don't need to trigger Change Detection manually.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Zone` handles the most of asynchronous APIs such as `setTimeout/Promise.then/addEventListener`, for the full list, please check the [Zone Module document](https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/master/packages/zone.js/MODULE.md). Therefore in those asynchronous APIs, we don't need to trigger Change Detection manually.
```

Author: Got it, thanks.

> There are still some 3rd party APIs that Zone does not handle. In those cases, the NgZone service provides a [run](api/core/NgZone#run) method that allows us to execute a function inside the angular zone`. This function, and all asynchronous operations in that function, trigger change detction automatically at the correct time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are still some 3rd party APIs that Zone does not handle. In those cases, the NgZone service provides a [run](api/core/NgZone#run) method that allows us to execute a function inside the angular zone. This function, and all asynchronous operations in that function, trigger change detction automatically at the correct time.
```

Author: Got it, thanks.

```typescript
export class AppComponent implements OnInit {
  constructor(private ngZone: NgZone) {}
  ngOnInit() {
    // new async API is not handled by Zone, so we need to
    // use ngZone.run to make the asynchronouse opeartion in angular zone
    // and trigger Change Detection automatically
    this.ngZone.run(() => {
      someNewAsyncAPI(() => {
        // update data of component
      });
    });
  }
}
```

By default, all asynchronous operations are inside the angular zone, which triggers change detection automatically. Another common case is when we don't want to trigger change detection. In that situation, we can use another NgZone method: [runOutsideAngular](api/core/NgZone#runoutsideangular).

```typescript
export class AppComponent implements OnInit {
  constructor(private ngZone: NgZone) {}
  ngOnInit() {

>     // we know there is no data will be updated

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    // we know no data will be updated
```

Author: Got it, thanks.

    // we don't want to do change detection in this
    // specified operation, we can call runOutsideAngular
    this.ngZone.runOutsideAngular(() => {
      setTimeout(() => {
        // do something will not update component data
      });
    });
  }
}
```

### Setup Zone

To make Zone available in Angular, we need to import the zone.js package. If you are using the Angular CLI, this step is done automatically, and you will see the following line in the `src/polyfills.ts`:

```typescript
/***************************************************************************************************
 * Zone JS is required by default for Angular itself.
 */
import 'zone.js/dist/zone';  // Included with Angular CLI.
```

There are some configurations you can do before importing `zone.js` package. Such as:

> - You can disable some asynchronous API monkey patching for better performance. For example, you can disable the `requestAnimationFrame` monkey patch, so the callback of requestAnimationFrame will not trigger Change Detection, this is useful if in your application, the callback of the requestAnimationFrame will not update any data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- You can disable some asynchronous API monkey patching for better performance. For example, you can disable the `requestAnimationFrame` monkey patch, so the callback of `requestAnimationFrame` will not trigger Change Detection, this is useful if in your application, the callback of the `requestAnimationFrame` will not update any data.
```

Author: Got it, thanks

- You can also specify that some DOM events not run inside the angular zone, such as you don't want `mousemove` or `scroll` event trigger Change Detection.

> THere are several other settings you can change. To make these changes, you need to create a `zone-flag.ts` file. For example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are several other settings you can change. To make these changes, you need to create a `zone-flag.ts` file. For example:
```

Author: Got it, thanks.

```typescript

>  (window as any).__Zone_disable_requestAnimationFrame = true; // disable patch requestAnimationFrame

Reviewer 2: As a side note, it would be nice if we could cast this to a well-know type which would be part of the Zone distribution, so that we have a place to document theses. Something like this

```typescript
(window as ZoneOptions).__Zone_disable_requestAnimationFrame = true; // disable patch requestAnimationFrame
```

So we could define `ZoneOptions` something like this:
```typescript
interface ZoneOptions {
  /**
   * Explanation of the option.
   */
  __Zone_disable_requestAnimationFrame: boolean;
}
```

Author: Yes, you are right, I also consider to add all those flag into a file `zone-flag.ts`, deployed with the Angular CLI. And in that files, we can list all possible flags and doc to let users be able to modify the flags without checking the doc.

```
// (window as ZoneOptions).__Zone_disable_requestAnimationFrame = true; // disable patch requestAnimationFrame

```

 (window as any).__zone_symbol__UNPATCHED_EVENTS = ['scroll', 'mousemove']; // disable patch specified eventNames
```

Next, import `zone-flag` before you import `zone` in the `polyfills.ts`.

```typescript
/***************************************************************************************************
 * Zone JS is required by default for Angular itself.
 */

> import `./zone-flag`;

Reviewer 2: perhaps `zone-flags` may be a better name?

Author: Yeah, you are right, updated. Thanks.

> # How NgZone automatically trigger Change Detection

Author: Got it, Thanks!

> In the [Displaying Data guide](guide/displaying-data), we already learned we can display data by binding controls in HTML template to the properties of an Angular Component.

Author: Yeah, you are right, your idea is great!

<code-example path="displaying-data/src/app/app.component.1.ts" header="src/app/app.component.ts"></code-example>

> And we can also bind `DOM events` to the method of Angular Component, in the method we can also update the property of Angular Component which will also update the data displayed in the template.

Author: Got it, thanks!

<code-example path="user-input/src/app/click-me.component.ts" region="click-me-component" header="src/app/click-me.component.ts"></code-example>

> In both examples, the code of Angular Component will only update the property of the Component, and the HTML will be automatically updated, So you may wonder when Angular will render the HTML based on the data from Angular Component.

Author: Yeah, got it, thanks!

> Let's see if we are using `Vanilla JS`, what the code will look like.

Author: Got it, thanks!

      // we need to call detectChange manually.
      detectChange();
    });

    // example2: Http Request
    const xhr = new XMLHttpRequest();
    xhr.addEventListener('load', function() {
      // get response from server
      value = this.responseText;
      // we need to call detectChange manually
      detectChange();
    });
    xhr.open('GET', serverUrl);
    xhr.send();

    // example3: setTimeout
    setTimeout(() => {
      // update value inside setTimeout callback
      value = 'timeout update value';
      // we need to call detectChange manually.
      detectChange();
    }, 100);

    // example4: Promise.then
    Promise.resolve('promise resolved a value').then((v) => {
      // update value inside Promise thenCallback
      value = v;
      // we need to call detectChange manually.
      detectChange();
    }, 100);

    // example5: some other asynchronous APIs
    document.getElementById('canvas').toBlob(blob => {
      // update value when blob data is created from the canvas
      value = `value updated by canvas, size is ${blog.size}`;
      // we need to call detectChange manually.
      detectChange();
    });
  </script>
</html>
```

> You can see after we update the data, we need to call `detectChanges` manually to check whether the data changed, if the data changed, we will render the HTML to reflect the updated data.

Author: Got it, Thanks!

> But in `Angular`, you don't need to worry about it, `whenever` you update the data, your html will be updated automatically, how it works?

Author: Got it, Thanks!

> First let's see `when` the HTML needs to be updated, which means when the data will change.

Author: Got it, Thanks!

> 1. Component initialization, for example, when we bootstrap an Angular application, Angular will load `bootstrap component` and trigger a method [ApplicationRef.tick](api/core/ApplicationRef#tick) to do `Change Detection` and `View Rendering`, just like in the `displaying data` sample, `AppComponent` is the `bootstrap component`, we have the property `title` and `myHero` defined in `class AppComponent`, those data will be rendered in the HTML.

Author: Got it, Thanks!

> 2. Event Listener

Author: Got it, Thanks!

DOM event listener can update the data in Angular Component and need to trigger Change Detection.

<code-example path="user-input/src/app/click-me.component.ts" region="click-me-component" header="src/app/click-me.component.ts"></code-example>

> 3. Http Data Request

Author: Got it, Thanks!

We may also get data from a server through Http request.

```typescript
@Component({
  selector: 'app-root',
  template: '<div>{{data}}</div>';
})
export class AppComponent implements OnInit {
  data = 'initial value';
  constructor(private httpClient: HttpClient) {}

  ngOnInit() {
    this.httpClient.get(serverUrl).subscribe(response => {
      // user don't need to care about change detection here
      data = response.data;
    });
  }
}
```

> 4. setTimeout/setInterval

Author: Got it, Thanks!

We may also update the data in the `callback` of `setTimeout`.

```typescript
@Component({
  selector: 'app-root',
  template: '<div>{{data}}</div>';
})
export class AppComponent implements OnInit {
  data = 'initial value';
  constructor(private httpClient: HttpClient) {}

  ngOnInit() {
    setTimeout(() => {
      // user don't need to care about change detection here
      data = 'value updated';
    });
  }
}
```

> 5. Promise.then

Author: Got it, Thanks!

Some other asynchronous APIs return `Promise` (such as `fetch`), so in the `then callback`, the data may also be updated.

```typescript
@Component({
  selector: 'app-root',
  template: '<div>{{data}}</div>';
})
export class AppComponent implements OnInit {
  data = 'initial value';
  constructor(private httpClient: HttpClient) {}

  ngOnInit() {
    Promise.resolve(1).then(v => {
      // user don't need to care about change detection here
      data = v;
    });
  }
}
```

> 6. And other async operations like WebSocket.onmessage, Canvas.toBlob, etc.

Author: Got it, Thanks!

> Those are all possible scenarios that the application may change the data, and only when data is changed, Angular needs to trigger the Change Detection and renderer the HTML. So what Angular does is to add some magic to intercept all those scenarios to trigger Change Detection and View Rendering automatically.

Author: Got it, Thanks!

> And you may notice except `scenario 1 Component Initialization`, all other scenarios are [Asynchronous Operations](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Asynchronous). In `scenario 1`, Angular just call `Change Detection` explicitly, in other `asynchronous scenarios`, Angular use `Zone` to trigger Change Detection automatically.

Author: Sure, got it! thanks!

## What is Zone

> A `Zone` is an execution context that persists across async tasks. You can think of it as [thread-local storage](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thread-local_storage) for JavaScript VMs.

Author: Thank you!

### Zone provides an Execution Context

> `Zone` provides an Execution Context that persists across async tasks. [Execution Context](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/this) is an abstract concept that holds information about the environment within the current code being executed.

Author: Oh, yeah, Got it, Thanks!

```javascript
const callback = function() {
  console.log('setTimeout callback context is', this);
}

const ctx1 = {
  name: 'ctx1'
};
const ctx2 = {
  name: 'ctx2'
};

const func = function() {
  console.log('caller context is', this);
  setTimeout(callback);
}

func.apply(ctx1);
func.apply(ctx2);
```

> The value of `this` in the `callback` of setTimeout will be different from when `setTimeout` is called. So we `lost` the context in asynchronous operations.

Author: Yeah, you are right, will remove other emphasis.

> With `Zone`, we can create a zone provides a new `zone context` other than `this`, this `zone context` will be persisted across asynchronous operations. Let's call this new zone context `zoneThis`.

Author: Here I want to say just like the execution context provided by the Javascript VM `this`, `Zone` provided another execution context called `zoneThis`, to do that, we need to create new `zone`

```javascript
zone.run(() => {
  // now we are in a zone
  expect(zoneThis).toBe(zone);
  setTimeout(function() {
    // the zoneThis context will be the same zone
    // when the setTimeout is scheduled
    expect(zoneThis).toBe(zone);
  });
});
```

> So we can see this new context `zoneThis` in the setTimeout callback will be the same when the setTimeout is scheduled. Of course, we didn't invent a new javascript keyword `zoneThis`, we can use `Zone.current` to get the current zone context.

Reviewer: Suggestion:

This new context, `zoneThis`, is added to the `setTimeout` callback function, and this context is the same when the `setTimeout` is scheduled. To get the current context, you can call `Zone.current`.

Author: Here what I want to say is the new context `zoneThis`, can be retrieved from setTimeout callback function, and it is the same context when the setTimeout is scheduled.

### Zone.js provides life cycle hooks of asynchronous operations

> With `Zone`, now we have a context to be persisted across asynchronous operations, based on this functionality, `Zone` also provides life cycle hooks of asynchronous operations.

Reviewer: Suggestion:

With `Zone`, we can create contexts that persist across asynchronous operations. `Zone` also provides life cycle hooks of asynchronous operations.

Author: Got it, thanks!

```javascript
const zone = Zone.current.fork({
  name: 'zone',
  onScheduleTask: function(delegate, curr, target, task) {
    console.log('new task is scheduled: ', task.type, task.source);
    return delegate.scheduleTask(target, task);
  },
  onInvokeTask: function(delegate, curr, target, task, applyThis, applyArgs) {
    console.log('task will be invoked', task.type, task.source);
    return delegate.invokeTask(target, task, applyThis, applyArgs);
  },
  onHasTask: function(delegate, curr, target, hasTaskState) {
    console.log('task state changed in the zone', hasTaskState);
    return delegate.hasTask(target, hasTaskState);
  },
  onInvoke: function(delegate, curr, target, callback, applyThis, applyArgs) {
    console.log('the callback will be invoked', callback);
    return delegate.invoke(target, callback, applyThis, applyArgs);
  }
});
zone.run(() => {
  setTimeout(() => {
    console.log('timeout callback is invoked.');
  });
});
```

Here we create a zone with several hooks.

> `onXXXTask` hooks will be triggered when the status of `Task` changed, `Task` is the same concept with Javascript VM.

Reviewer: Suggestion:

Replace "will be triggered" with "trigger." In general, it's best to avoid future tense ("will be triggered...") Marking this here, but consider applying this suggestion throughout.

Author: Oh, thank you, got it!

- `macroTask`: such as `setTimeout`.
- `microTask`: such as `Promise.then`.
- `eventTask`: such as `element.addEventListener`.

And `onInvoke` hook will be triggered when a synchronize function is executed in a `zone`.

> Here is a basic introduction of those hooks.

Reviewer: Suggestion:

The available life cycle hooks are:

Author: Got it, I will rephrase this one, because I didn't list all the hooks here, I only try to let the user know how Zone work, the whole list of the hooks will be described in the documentation of zone.js itself.

> - onScheduleTask: this hook will be triggered when a new asynchronous task is being scheduled. such as when we call `setTimeout`, before the timeout is going to be scheduled, this hook will be triggered.

Reviewer: In addition to avoiding "will" statements, you can also remove "being". So "task is being scheduled" becomes "task is scheduled.

- onScheduleTask: This hook tiggers when a new asynchronous task is scheduled, such as when we call `setTimeout`.

Author: Thank you, got it!

> - onInvokeTask: this hook will be triggered when an asynchronous task is being executed. such as when the callback of `setTimeout` is going to be executed, this hook will be triggered.

Reviewer: - onInvokeTask: This hook triggers when an asynchronous task is executed, such as when the callback of `setTimeout` is executed.

Author: Got it, here the onInvokeTask will trigger when an asynchronous task is about to be executed, not executed, so how about
```
onInvokeTask: This hook triggers when an asynchronous task is about to execute, such as when the callback of setTimeout is about to execute.
```

> - onHasTask: this hook will be triggered when the status of one kind of task inside zone become from `stable` to `unstable` or from `unstable` to `stable`, the meaning of `stable` means no tasks inside zone anymore, `unstable` means a new task is scheduled in the `zone`.

Reviewer: - onHasTask: This hook triggers when the status of one kind of task inside a `zone` changes from `stable` to `unstable` or from `unstable` to `stable`. The status, `stable`, means there are no tasks inside the `Zone`, while `unstable` means a new task is scheduled in the `zone`.

Author: Got it, thanks!

> - onInvoke: this hook will be triggered when a synchronize function is executed in the zone.

Reviewer: - onInvoke: This hook triggers when a synchronize function is executed in the zone.

Author: Just like onInvokeTask, onInvoke also triggers when a synchronize function is going to execute.
so how about.

```
onInvoke: This hook triggers when a synchronize function is going to execute in the zone.

```

> So with all those hooks, `Zone` can monitor the status of all synchronize and asynchronous operations inside a zone.

Reviewer: Remove "So":

With all those hooks...

Author: Got it, Thanks!

> To run the sample above, we will see the following output.

Reviewer: Change to:

When we run the above sample, we see the following output.

```
the callback will be invoked () => {
  setTimeout(() => {
    console.log('timeout callback is invoked.');
  });
}
new task is scheduled:  macroTask setTimeout
task state changed in the zone { microTask: false,
  macroTask: true,
  eventTask: false,
  change: 'macroTask' }
task will be invoked macroTask setTimeout
timeout callback is invoked.
task state changed in the zone { microTask: false,
  macroTask: false,
  eventTask: false,
  change: 'macroTask' }
```

> All those functionalities of `Zone` are provided by a library called `zone.js`, and `zone.js` implements those features by monkey patching asynchronous APIs.

Reviewer: Suggestion:

All of the functions of `Zone` are provided by a library called `zone.js`. This library implements those features by monkey patching asynchronous APIs.

Side note: What is monkey patching?

Author: Sure, I will add a link to mdn about monkey patching.

> For the detail of how Zone work and the API of Zone, please check the [Zone documentation](https://github.com/angular/angular/tree/master/packages/zone.js).

Reviewer: Change to:

For more information on how `Zone` works, see the [Zone documentation](https://github/angular/angular/tree/master/packages/zone.js)

Side note: Is the documentation really just the JavaScript file?

Author: Oh, it should be redirected to the `zone.js/README.md`, I will update the link

## NgZone

> We already know `Zone` can monitor all the status of sync and async operations, Angular provides a service called `NgZone`, internally it creates a `Zone` named `angular zone` to automatically trigger Change Detection when the following two conditions are satisfied:

Reviewer: Suggestion:

We know `Zone` can monitor all the states of synchronous and asynchronous operations. In addition, Angular provides a service called `NgZone`. This service creates a `Zone` named `Angular Zone` to automatically trigger change detction when the following conditions are satisfied:

Author: Got it, thanks!

1: When sync or async function is executed.
2: When there is no `microTask` scheduled.

### NgZone run/runOutsideOfAngular

> `Zone` already handled the most of asynchronous APIs such as `setTimeout/Promise.then/addEventListener` (for the full list, please check the [Zone Module document](https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/master/packages/zone.js/MODULE.md)). So in those asynchronous APIs, Angular developers don't need to trigger Change Detection manually.

Reviewer: Change "already handled" to "handles"

Remove parentheses around "for the full list..." and make it a standalone sentence. 

Replace "Angular developers" with "we". (After all, we've been using we elsewhere...)

Author: Got it, thanks!

> But there are still some `3rd party` APIs that `Zone` didn't handle, so in that case, `NgZone` service provides a method [run](api/core/NgZone#run) to allow user to execute a function inside `angular zone`, so the function and all asynchronous operations in that function will all trigger Change Detection automatically at the correct timing.

Reviewer: Suggestion:

There are still some 3rd party APIs that `Zone` does not handle. In those cases, the `NgZone service provides a [run](api/core/NgZone#run) method that allows us to execute a function inside the `angular zone`. This function, and all asynchronous operations in that function, trigger change detction automatically at the correct time.

Author: Got it, thanks！

```typescript
export class AppComponent implements OnInit {
  constructor(private ngZone: NgZone) {}
  ngOnInit() {
    // new async API is not handled by Zone, so we need to
    // use ngZone.run to make the asynchronouse opeartion in angular zone
    // and trigger Change Detection automatically
    this.ngZone.run(() => {
      someNewAsyncAPI(() => {
        // update data of component
      });
    });
  }
}
```

> By default, all asynchronous operations are inside `angular zone`, and it will trigger Change Detection automatically, another common case is some time we don't want trigger change detection, we can use another method provided by `NgZone` service, which is [runOutsideAngular](api/core/NgZone#runoutsideangular).

Reviewer: Suggestion:

By default, all asynchronous operations are inside `angular zone`, which triggers change detection automatically. Another common case is when we don't want to trigger change detection. In that situation, we can use another `NgZone` method: [runOutsideAngular](api/core/NgZone#runoutsideangular).

Author: Got it, thanks!

```typescript
export class AppComponent implements OnInit {
  constructor(private ngZone: NgZone) {}
  ngOnInit() {
    // we know there is no data will be updated
    // we don't want to do change detection in this
    // specified operation, we can call runOutsideAngular
    this.ngZone.runOutsideAngular(() => {
      setTimeout(() => {
        // do something will not update component data
      });
    });
  }
}
```

### Setup Zone

> To make `Zone` available in Angular, we need to import `zone.js` package, if you are using Angular CLI, this step is already done for you. You will find out the following line in `src/polyfills.ts`,

Reviewer: Suggestion:

To make `Zone` available in Angular, we need to import the `zone.js` package. If you are using the Angular CLI, this step is done automatically, and you will see the following line in `src/polyfills.ts`:

Author: Got it, thanks!

```typescript
/***************************************************************************************************
 * Zone JS is required by default for Angular itself.
 */
import 'zone.js/dist/zone';  // Included with Angular CLI.
```

> There are some configurations you can do before import `zone.js` package. Such as:

Reviewer: Suggestion: 

change import to importing

Author: Got it, thanks!

> - You can disable some asynchronous API monkey patching for better performance. For example, you can disable `requestAnimationFrame` monkey patch, so the callback of `requestAnimationFrame` will not trigger Change Detection, this is useful if in your application the `requestAnimationFrame` will not update any data.

Reviewer: Change

...you can disable

to

...you can disable the

Also, add comma after **if** and **application**

Author: Got it, thanks!

> - You can also specify some dom events not run inside of `angular zone`, such as you don't want `mousemove` or `scroll` event trigger Change Detection.

Reviewer: Change specify to specify that
Change dom to DOM
Change `angular zone`, such as to `angular zone`. For example, if

Author: Got it, thanks!

> And there are several other settings you can do, to make those configurations, you need to create a file `zone-flag.ts` like this,

Reviewer: Maybe:

THere are several other settings you can change. To make these changes, you need to create a `zone-flag.ts` file. For example:

Author: Got it, thanks!

```typescript
 (window as any).__Zone_disable_requestAnimationFrame = true; // disable patch requestAnimationFrame
 (window as any).__zone_symbol__UNPATCHED_EVENTS = ['scroll', 'mousemove']; // disable patch specified eventNames
```

> and import `zone-flag` before import `zone` in `polyfills.ts`.

Reviewer: Perhaps:

Next, import `zone-flag` before you import `zone` in `polyfills.ts`.

Author: Yeah, got it, thanks!

```typescript
/***************************************************************************************************
 * Zone JS is required by default for Angular itself.
 */
import `./zone-flag`;
import 'zone.js/dist/zone';  // Included with Angular CLI.
```

> For the details of what you can configure, please check the documentation of [zone.js](https://github.com/angular/angular/tree/master/packages/zone.js)

Reviewer: Change For the details to For more information

Author: Got it, thanks!

### NoopZone

> `Zone` will help Angular to know when to trigger Change Detection and let the developers focus on the application development, by default, `Zone` will be loaded and everything works out of the box. But you don't have to use `Zone` to make Angular work, you can still trigger Change Detection all by yourself. To remove `zone.js`, you need to do the following steps, **ALERT! if you do this, you need to understand what you are doing clearly, and you need to trigger all the change detection at the correct timing yourself**.

Reviewer: I wonder if this is appropriate here? it seems like we're encouraging developers to do something that may cause problems later. Maybe this should go in a separate topic?

Author: Yeah, I am not sure about this, so the `noop` zone is already been official supported for a while, so the reason I put it here is it is also about Zone, so the user may have a full picture.
And of course we can also put it into a sub chapter.

Reviewer 2: We need documentation for no-zone, but that is outside the scope of these docs.

Author: Got it, I will create another PR to add `no-zone`.

In addition, you can bind DOM events to a method of an Angular component. In such methods, you can also update a property of the Angular component, which updates the corresponding data displayed in the template.

<code-example path="user-input/src/app/click-me.component.ts" region="click-me-component" header="src/app/click-me.component.ts"></code-example>

In both of the above examples, the component's code updates only the property of the component.
However, the HTML is also updated automatically.
This guide describes how and when Angular renders the HTML based on the data from the Angular component.

### Detecting changes with plain JavaScript

To clarify how changes are detected and values updated, consider the following code written in plain JavaScript.

```javascript
<html>
  <div id="dataDiv"></div>
  <button id="btn">updateData<btn>
  <canvas id="canvas"><canvas>
  <script>
    let value = 'initialValue';
    // initial rendering
    detectChange();

    function renderHTML() {
      document.getElementById('dataDiv').innerText = value;
    }

    function detectChange() {
      const currentValue = document.getElementById('dataDiv').innerText;

>       if (currentValue === value) {

Reviewer 2: I think this would be easier to understand if it would say 
```
if (currentValue !== value) {
  renderHTML()
}
```

Author: Got it, updated, thanks.
